Transformation of Blueprints into k0rdent templates. (#347)
Mirantis/mke-docs: content/docs/concepts/k0rdent-templates.md

---
weight: 3
---

# k0rdent templates

{{< callout type="info" >}}

> [k0rdent](https://k0rdent.io) is a Mirantis-initiated open source project that
> enables convenient lifecycle management of services on MKE 4k clusters.

Author: ```suggestion
[k0rdent](https://k0rdent.io) is a Mirantis-initiated open source project with which platform engineers can build, automate, and manage Kubernetes platforms at scale. MKE 4 is adopting k0rdent technology to enable installation and management of services and components in a template-driven manner. k0rdent is available in MKE 4k as a technical preview only.

For more information on MKE 4k and k0rdent, [contact Mirantis Sales]([mirantis.com/contact).
```

---
weight: 3
---

> # k0rdent templates

Reviewer: Something in here should mention that MKE is creating and managing these k0rdent templates. The current description would make me think I can edit these as a user. We don't expose these in an easy to edit way. Someone can go change them in the cluster, but the mke-operator will reconcile and wipe out their changes. Wording here can set better expectations for the user.

Reviewer: I think wording here should be along the lines of

```
We chose to build on top of k0rdent templates because...
```

> k0rdent templates are re-usable text definitions of components that you can use

Reviewer: This is a chicken and egg problem and it's currently backwards.

There isn't a k0rdent template for creating an MKE4 cluster. Not at the moment. That's a future issue.

The flow is that MKE creates k0rdent templates and then creates a k0rdent cluster. This reads as the other way around.

to create and manage MKE 4 clusters. These templates provide a declarative way
for you to deploy and manage complex clusters or components while massively
reducing the number of parameters that require hands-on configuration.

## Benefits

k0rdent templates are:

* **Human readable and editable**: k0rdent templates use YAML as an abstraction
to represent the target state.

* **Usable in multiple contexts by way of runtime parameterization**: Through
the use of placeholders, you can customize templates at runtime without having
to directly edit the template.

* **Usable for both cluster creation and addon management**: You can use
k0rdent templates to define a cluster through YAML. You
can also define and manage addons for your clusters, such as an ingress
operator or monitoring tools.

* **Capable of limited scope deployment**: You can set restrictions over which
k0rdent templates can be deployed and by whom. For example, a platform manager
can configure a template so that non-admin users can only execute templates
that deploy a particular set of controllers.

> ## Template types ##

Reviewer: We should reference the k0rdent docs for these templates for those that are wanting to read about them in more detail. Keep everything here high level.

# k0rdent templates

{{< callout type="info" >}}

[k0rdent](https://k0rdent.io) is an open source Mirantis-founded project that
enables platform engineers to quickly define Kubernetes clusters and required
services from composable components, such as:

* Open source solutions from the k0rdent community
* Open source solutions packaged, validated, and fully supported by Mirantis
* Select fully supported solutions from Mirantis partners

> k0rdent enables convenient lifecycle management of services on MKE 4k clusters.

Reviewer: So when I want to manage my MKE4 cluster's services, I should use k0rdent?

{{< /callout >}}

k0rdent templates are re-usable text definitions of components that you can use

> to install services on MKE 4 clusters. These templates provide a declarative way

Reviewer: This still reads to me that a customer would use k0rdent templates to install things on an MKE4 cluster
